so talking about HTML structure we
looked at the top parent-child
relationship but why is it also
important well let's look at some real
examples let's go to G Q calm you might
start to recognize some of these
developments here is probably some
header tag this might be a P tag here's
an image but how did these elements just
know how to sit or as we call it how to
be rendered why is the image on the left
and not at the top if you take this
whole block of content and consider to
be an individual piece it's probably a
div container with several other
elements inside it well here's where we
talk about the relationship between
elements if I had two P tags to my HTML
what do you think is going to happen how
do you think they're going to sit how do
you think they're going to be rendered
well they sit on top of each other what
if there were a tax links now they sit
side-by-side but why is that
well the reason for that is something
that all elements have is called the
display type and it's different for P as
opposed to an a paragraphs or what we
call block level elements that means
they take up the entire row they go all
the way to the right regardless of how
much tax is in there a tag on the other
hand doesn't you take as much horizontal
space as they need depending on how much
text is in there they just stopped where
the text ends that's called an inline
element which to me sounds like they're
within the line where they belong so
they stopped another example divs and
spans these are both used as containers
for other elements they don't
necessarily render anything themselves
they help with grouping things together
here are two divs and here are two spans
so the type of element you choose makes
a massive difference and how they get
rendered so now let's go back to GQ and
look at some of those groups
again what do you think these elements
are what about these side panels do they
look like there are groups I mean to me
they look like your groups this is
another group what if we could actually
cheat and and see how they were built
well we actually can and you already
know how just right-click on any
elements you're interested to see how
it's built and click on inspect element
this window will show you every element
on this page if you can use this in
Chrome Safari Firefox and I think
they're all pretty much the same using
IE I got nothing for you just change
your browser please and you can do this
to any web site in the world it's pretty
amazing it's a it's really a great
learning tool and just to poke around
some of your favorite sites and and and
see how they're built
sometimes it's crazy what you find in
there sometimes they're really confusing
sometimes when you when you recognize
something that you know like for example
a piece of HTML did you give used before
like a P tag or something kind of feels
cool and that's it there is no mystery
to it so spend some time look around on
some of the websites that you like make
maybe Facebook or Facebook's actually
really complicated because it has a lot
of little elements like like button and
all those things but take a look and see
how they're structured you'll pretty
soon start to notice patterns that
you're already familiar with
so to recap there are block elements
that take up the whole row there are
inline elements that take as much space
as they need here are two crazy things
I'll add to that number one these are
the most important display behaviors
block and inline but there are other
kinds as well and we will cover them
number two you can change the display
type of an element using two CSS so ap
can actually become inline and a link
can become block are you confused great
that means you're getting into real HTML
it will make more sense than more you do
it so go ahead experiment I've shown you
enough types of elements and the next
couple videos will actually
make a meaningful page together